Since the spread has stopped,
and it looks like it's regressing,
I'm dropping your mother
to ten milligrams of Tamoxifen twice a day
and starting her
on an 80 milligram IV of Doxorubicin.
Are you sure she still needs all that?
She's walking. She's laughing.
Uh, she made me and my little brother
dinner the other night.
I can't remember
the last time that she did that.
Mm. She's headed in the right direction.
Tapering off her dosage
makes sure it stays that way.
You're doing a great job
taking care of your mom, Tory.
Keep it up.
Glad to see you're still training.
What are you doing here?
Aren't the police looking for you?
Oh, I'm not that easy to catch.
I just came to check up on my champion.
- How are you holding up?
- Oh, so now you care?
Last time I saw you, I needed your help.
And you know what you said to me?
The best thing you can do right now
is look after yourself.
I went back for you.
You left me to deal with Silver
and his psycho-bitch sidekick alone.
You have every right to be angry.
But I could not involve you in my plan
to… liberate myself.
I know it seemed cold.
But I was only trying to protect you.
And now that I'm out,
we have an opportunity to dominate--
No. There is no "we."
Oh, I see now.
You know, I never thought
I'd see the day when
the Queen Cobra would join the enemy.
- They're my friends.
- Darling, don't be naive.
They'll invite you in,
but you'll never belong there.
When push comes to shove,
they'll always figure out a reason
to keep you second fiddle
to LaRusso's kid.
Go crawl back under your rock.
I may not be calling the police,
but if my senseis see you, they will.
I am your sensei,
and you
are my champion.
I may be a champion,
but I'm not yours.
I heard Aisha got into UC Santa Cruz.
- You heard anything from Stanford?
- No.
I've been checking my emails,
like, every day, but nothing.
Don't stress. It'll come.
I mean, Demetri hasn't heard
from MIT yet, so…
Yeah, I did.
- I got in.
- What?
Well, yeah. Why are you all so surprised?
I worked my ass off and earned that spot.
That would be like LeBron James
getting turned down by the Lakers.
Congratulations, Demetri.
It's a really hard school to get into.
Yeah, it certainly is.
Especially when you don't apply.
Right, Eli?
Real subtle.
Hey, man, I'm just saying you miss
100% of the shots you don't take.
I still can't believe you told Kreese off.
I've never seen anybody do that before.
He had it coming.
Keep that between us. I don't want
anyone thinking I'm in contact with him.
Yeah. I won't say a word.
- I'm just happy that you're here.
- Yeah, well, this is all we have.
Everyone else is worried about college,
but for us,
this is our last chance to win big.
Yeah, I mean,
you've already done something big.
- You won the All Valley.
- Yeah? It doesn't count.
Silver paid off the ref.
It's still better
than always coming in second.
Hey.
This is bigger than the All Valley.
It's gonna be televised
all over the world.
If we win,
that's all anyone's gonna remember.
It would be nice to stand on that podium.
And side by side
for the entire world to see.
Let's make a deal.
No matter what, we stick together,
and we win the Sekai Taikai.
Just you and me.
Yeah?
All right. Circle up.
Hey, ha-have you seen Kenny?
- Uh, no. Not since the shittening.
- Probably still trying to clean his pants.
The Sekai Taikai
needs our final roster in three days.
And now that we know who's going,
it's time for us to name
our male and female captains.
The captains are not just
the leaders of the team.
They're the ones
that will be fighting in the finals
if we can make it that far.
Plus, they get to fight on live TV.
Who knows what comes after that?
Wheaties boxes, chop-socky flicks,
ZZ Top videos. Sky's the limit.
You'll all get the glory if we win,
but, yes, the captains
will be in the spotlight.
They need to represent
the best that Miyagi-Do has to offer.
And Sensei Lawrence and I
want to assure you
that the decision
will be completely unbiased.
That's right. In two days,
Sam will face Tory
for the female captain spot,
Robby and Miguel will fight
for male captain.
We all know
you fought plenty of times before,
but now that we're on the same side,
this is still the best way for us
to see who's progressed the most.
All right, enough talking.
It's time to train.
You four, get inside.
I'm gonna whip your butts into shape.
I thought I was
supposed to train them today.
Ah, you go tomorrow.
Got some moves I wanna teach.
Can you tell me that ahead of time?
We gotta stay on the same page. Otherwise,
we're gonna be sending mixed messages.
Don't get your panties in a bunch,
all right? We are on the same page.
Look. Miyagi-Do, remember?
I even came up with my own kata.
Big circle.
Breathe in.
Breathe out.
Elbow to the face. Punch to the throat.
Lift his ass up.
And dump him.
The key to Miyagi-Do is balance.
You gotta stay on your feet
no matter what life throws at you.
♪ The battle ain't… ♪
Mr. Miyagi fought for America.
You're gonna have to do the same.
♪ We'll never surrender… ♪
Foreign kids don't speak English.
But they do speak karate.
Ais!
- Gonna have to kick higher.
- Ais!
And harder… than ever before.
- The Soviet Union doesn't even exist any--
- Quiet!
♪ Raise the flag ♪
Good job, Nichols.
That's it, Robby.
Breathe and clear your minds.
Focus. Open your eyes.
Watch closely. Watch closely.
Here comes the good part right here.
Right here.
Hell yeah.
Kick to the stomach. Block his attack.
Grab his nuts.
Twist, twist, twist.
Alex Grady is the character he's playing.
Lost his shoulder in the first movie.
In the second movie,
it's miraculously healed.
If you believe in yourselves,
you could be like Eric Roberts too.
Yes, Nichols!
Dodge, not catch. Get up, Diaz.
LaRusso, keep your feet.
Balance, balance! Come on!
Sam!
I'm at the end of my rope. First,
he goes behind my back with Barnes.
Now he's shoehorning
his old macho crap into the lessons.
He took over
the entire training session today.
But isn't that where we're heading?
You know, Johnny taking over
once you step aside.
I mean, you said this tournament
was your karate swan song.
Okay, I remember.
I also remember Johnny saying
he was gonna fully embrace Miyagi-Do too.
Well, he is, isn't he?
In name only at this point.
Ever since we found out
there's only six slots and two captains,
all his worst impulses are rushing back.
Trust me,
Mr. Miyagi would not be happy
with this version of Johnny
as the face of his family's karate,
I'll tell you that.
Well, maybe you're right,
but how do you know?
I mean, after what we learned
about Mr. Miyagi, anything is possible.
Amanda, I don't care what's in that box.
I know who Mr. Miyagi was,
and this is not what he would've wanted.
Okay, I didn't mean to rile you up.
I'm sorry.
Just having a bad day.
Today was a great day
at Miyagi-Do.
Kids are tougher than they've ever been.
- That's great.
- They're ready to fight the best.
I just hope this fight doesn't create
a rift between Miguel and Robby, you know?
They've come so far.
Don't worry. They're all good.
I've been watching 'em.
- Oh.
- What is it? What's wrong? You okay?
Yeah.
She's kicking.
- Damn. Girl's got power.
- Yeah.
- We should bring her to the tournament.
- Mm.
- Oh, Miggy.
- Hey.
What's wrong?
- I got deferred.
- You got deferred? What's deferred?
From Stanford. It means "not yes."
But it's not a no either, right?
They'll re-review your application
with the other kids in the spring.
- You're still in the fight.
- Yeah.
Doesn't matter how you start.
It's how you finish.
Exactly. Oh!
Well, thanks, Mrs. Parton.
You sure it's okay
for Brandon to stay both nights?
You're the best.
Please make sure
he brushes his teeth. Okay.
Mom, I'm home.
Dr. Judith lowered all your prescriptions.
She said you're doing so much better.
No.
Mom.
Mom. Mom!
Mom! Mom!
Mom, wake up!
Mom, please wake up.
Wake up, Mom!
Mom! Mom! Mom!
Mom! Mom!
I've been checking
Stanford's websites,
and they only accept
15% of the people they defer.
Fifteen!
Anything you can do between now and April
is only gonna help your chances.
Extracurriculars are huge.
They didn't care about the All Valley. Why
would they care about the Sekai Taikai?
Because it's international.
It's one thing to be the best in town.
It's another to be the best in the world.
Yeah.
It just means
I'm gonna have to beat Robby again.
Hey.
Uh, have you guys seen Tory?
We're supposed to train at the park later.
No, but I thought you were coming
to the dojo to train with us.
Well, we figured
since we're fighting each other,
it would be best
not to show each other our moves.
Yeah, I mean, makes sense.
You better watch out.
You're going down this time, El Serpiente.
If they're training together,
then so are we.
LaRusso.
You put me on the test drive schedule?
What the hell?
You're always
on the test drive schedule Thursday.
But the captains' tests are tomorrow.
I figured you'd get someone else.
There is no one else.
Mendez went home sick.
So get Louie to cover. You're just gonna
train the kids without me?
Yeah, kind of like how you trained them
yesterday without me, right?
I see what's going on. You're pissed
Nichols kicked ass in my lesson
and Sam didn't,
so you're sidelining me to tip the scales.
No, I'm not tipping anything.
It's business, Johnny.
You just can't leave when you want.
- Well, you're leaving.
- Well, it is my business.
Someone's gotta train the kids.
I'll run through exercises at the dojo.
Make sure they're ready for tomorrow.
It'll be good.
Tory.
Tory?
I'm so sorry, sweetie.
You said she was getting better.
Your mom had a pulmonary embolism.
We had no idea
she was developing a blood clot.
And when it broke up--
You should have caught it.
Uh, you have every right to be upset.
You're grieving.
Just try to remember
the last five years were a gift.
Your mom was--
I have to go.
Is there anyone we can call?
There's no one.
Sensei, how am I doing?
Your form is great.
Just remember
to clear your mind and breathe.
Kid's dialed in.
He really wants that male captain slot.
It's his best shot at Stanford.
What about you?
We know Tory's gonna
give you a good fight.
But what are you fighting for?
Closure.
Tory beat me at the All Valley,
but it was tainted.
For both of us.
I wanna prove how good I really am.
To myself.
Closure's good.
It means the outcome isn't what matters.
If you wanna find your closure,
you just have to give it your all.
Just lay it out there.
All right.
Handles pretty well.
Just give it some gas. Don't be a pussy.
- Are we allowed to go this fast?
- Test drive. It doesn't count.
The question you should be asking is,
"Can I beat every other car on the road?"
- I assume it's got Bluetooth.
- It's got all the teeth you'll ever need.
When you're driving
down Ventura Boulevard,
all the babes are gonna drop their…
Son of a bitch.
Anti-lock brakes. Comes standard.
Hup.
Uh, you guys keep going, okay?
I'll… I'll be right back.
Hup.
- What the hell, man?
- What are you doing here?
Basic training at the dojo, huh?
You kept me at work
to get me out of the way.
No. That was not the intent.
Save it, all right. Some partnership.
I don't have to defend how I train
these kids. I'm reviewing kata.
Who's that?
Ah hell!
My test drive.
- Don't change the subject.
- That is beyond unprofessional.
Please go back to the car
and finish the test drive.
I got a better idea. How about you finish
the test drive, and I'll train the kids.
You've had your day of training, okay?
And forcing a client
to hike through the woods
so you could swear at your boss
is bad for business.
So take him back.
Now.
You're the boss.
Yeah, I am.
Move it or lose it, dude. I'm driving.
Attention, everyone!
Can I have your attention, please?
I'm leaving LaRusso Auto
to start my own dealership.
So if you're like me and you're tired
of the way Daniel runs shit around here,
we'll walk away right now.
No questions asked.
Who's with me?
Who is that guy?
- Anoush, grab your shit. Let's go.
- I'm, uh… I'm on an important call.
Yeah, I know, it's got a lot of torque.
Johnny, get down.
- Can we talk for a second?
- Louie.
I'm willing to let bygones be bygones.
What do you say?
Ready to join Team Lawrence?
Oh, I would, but it's family, man,
and I got a good thing going here.
But just out of curiosity,
what kind of 401are you working with?
Come on, let's go.
Grab a bunch of cars
from the trade-in lot.
Meet me at Art's Deli
to discuss your future.
Okay, get… Just get in there.
- Okay. What happened?
- Why don't you ask Daniel?
I'm asking you because you're the one
pulling the dime store Jerry Maguire.
Your damn husband has a bug
up his brown hole. That's one thing.
Number two, I joined Miyagi-Do
thinking we were in this together,
and meanwhile he's pushing me
out of the way.
I'm sure he's not pushing you
out of the way. Daniel's just…
He hasn't been himself lately.
He's… been going through something.
You're finally leaving him, huh?
Oh, damn. He's gonna shit when he
finds out you're working for me and Louie.
I'm not leaving him.
And you're not quitting.
But you are acting like an idiot.
So just cool your jets.
And give Daniel some grace.
He found this… old box of Mr. Miyagi's,
and it just brought up
a lot of difficult emotions for him.
Oh yeah?
What was in the box?
Ais! Ais!
Second place.
Ais! Ais! Ais! Ais!
- Yeah!
- Second place.
Second place. Second. Second place.
Second place.
Oh, you're still training.
Yeah. What about you?
You get some work in?
Ah, a little.
Look, Robby, I just wanted to say
no matter what happens on the mat,
I don't have any beef with you, okay?
Yeah.
I just really need this.
And I don't?
That's not what I'm saying. I'm just, uh…
I'm thinking about Stanford.
They look at my application again, and
this could be really life-changing for me.
So because I'm not going to college,
my life isn't worth changing?
- That's--
- Hey, boys.
I, um, made hamburgers.
Thanks, Ms. Diaz. I'm not hungry.
See you tomorrow.
Yeah.
Tory.
Tory?
What are you drawing, sweetie?
Wow.
Is that a queen and her princess?
Mermaid princess.
Oh, yeah, of course.
I can see her little tail right there.
- And who is this?
- The prince.
He's gonna fight
anyone who tries to hurt them.
Well, it's beautiful.
But why do they need
a prince to fight for them?
How about the queen
and the mermaid princess
learn to fight for themselves?
But they don't know how.
Well, not yet.
But maybe they can learn.
Together.
How does that sound?
It's okay, sweetie.
Life dealt us a bad hand.
But we can change that.
'Cause we're fighters now.
Until we learn how,
this magic jewel will protect you.
You're a pretty amazing little girl.
And Mommy loves you so much.
Look, you have to find
a way of making this work.
I tried, Amanda. I really did.
If a guy can't work a shift
without undermining me,
I don't know what I'm supposed to do.
You're right.
He was out of line at the dealership,
but at the dojo,
you two are supposed to be partners.
You could've given
Anoush or Louie the shift.
Why not just include him in the training?
I told you. He is--
Not embracing Miyagi-Do. I get it.
Look, far be it from me to tell you
anything about Mr. Miyagi's karate,
but if there is one word
that I've heard a lot,
it is "balance."
It seems like
ever since you opened that box,
you have been off balance.
Yeah, I know.
It was hard enough
not having Mr. Miyagi in my life anymore.
The thing that bothers me now is
knowing there was
a part of his life I didn't know.
A part that he was keeping from me.
I just have this… scary feeling
deep down in my heart
that there's a reason why, and I'm…
afraid to know what that is.
Well, maybe it's a good thing
that you'll never know.
That way, you can stop worrying
about the past and focus on the present.
And right now,
your students need you and Johnny.
Hey.
Just give it your all. Whether you win
or lose, I believe in you. Okay?
Thank you.
Hey.
Just give it your all.
Whether you win or lose,
I believe in you. Okay?
Sensei Lawrence, a word, please?
Hey, Johnny, listen. About yesterday--
It's fine. I get it. You're the boss. And
I know you've been dealing with some shit.
No, it's not fine, okay?
I may be your boss at the dealership,
but I am your partner in karate.
So, I was thinking,
what if I refereed Robby and Miguel?
Keep you out of the middle of your boys.
And you ref Sam and Tory.
Sounds fair.
It's gonna be a rough day for these kids.
We just need to be there for 'em.
Hey, where's Tory?
I don't know. I've been calling her.
She should be here.
Oh.
Miguel, Robby, you're up first.
First to three points wins.
Face each other. Bow.
Fighting positions.
- Ais!
Ready?
Fight.
Point, Diaz.
One point, Diaz.
Zero points, Keene.
Ready?
Fight.
Point, Diaz. Two points.
One more, and he wins.
That's two points to zero.
Tory.
It's 2-0. Diaz in the lead.
Hey.
Are you okay?
Yeah. Just ready to fight.
Ready?
Ais!
Fight.
Point, Keene.
Yeah! Nice!
Two to one.
Ready?
Fight.
Point, Keene.
Don't worry, Miguel.
No matter what happens,
everything's gonna be okay.
No, I need this.
All right.
Two to two.
Next point wins.
Ready?
Fight.
Ais.
Point. Winner.
No hard feelings?
No, man.
Congratulations, Robby.
Thanks, Mr. LaRusso.
Your male captain.
Robby Keene.
Good job, Robby. Sorry, Miguel.
Hey, you were a badass out there.
Today just wasn't your day.
Thanks, Sensei.
- Hey.
- Sorry I was late.
You came just in time.
LaRusso, Nichols.
You and me on the podium, right?
- Right.
- Yeah.
Break a leg. Not literally. Don't…
Bow to me.
Bow to each other.
May the best woman win.
Fighting positions.
It's okay, sweetie.
Life dealt us a bad hand.
But we can change that.
'Cause we're fighters now.
Ready? Fight.
Point, LaRusso.
That's my girl.
Fighting positions.
Ready?
Point, Nichols.
Hey, Ref.
That's a little overkill.
That should be no point.
Yeah, yeah, I'm handling it.
I'm… I'm fine. I'm fine.
Listen, that's a warning.
Next one's a deduction.
It's one to one. Fighting positions.
Ready?
Fight.
Point, LaRusso.
Two to one.
Hello?
Fighting positions.
Ready?
Fight.
We need to stop the fight.
The fight's over.
That's not fair.
That could have been a point.
What the hell? I'm the ref.
I'll decide when the fight's over.
- I'll explain. I promise.
- Don't stop the fight. Please.
- We can't do it in front of everybody.
- I'm fine, Dad. Really.
No, Sam. It's not that. It's not that.
Come on. Please, girls.
Off the deck. Let's go.
Don't tell them what to do.
I'm their sensei too.
Well, then, end the fight.
Why?
Because my mother died.
Tory.
I'm… I'm so sorry for your loss.
But we can't continue this fight.
- This is not the time.
- Yes, it is.
Yes, it is.
I have to fight now.
No. Tory.
I wanna fight, too,
but this is not right.
Sensei Lawrence, some help here, please.
It's not up to us.
- If Nichols wants to fight, she should.
- Johnny.
We'll find another way
to appoint the captain.
Find a way? No.
No! You do not understand.
None of you understand!
My mom would have wanted this.
If I don't fight…
I have to do this.
I have to do this for her.
- I have to fight.
- Tory, let's just take a second and--
- Robby, no.
- Just breathe.
Tory, I know what you're feeling, okay?
I also know that you're not
in the right headspace to decide.
- You don't want me to beat your daughter.
- No.
When push comes to shove,
you're gonna choose her over me.
- No, it's not that, Tory.
- Hey, we're not taking sides.
- You sure about that?
- Johnny.
You want this fight to be over?
Fine. It's over.
- Tory, where are you going?
- I'm done!
Great work, LaRusso.
You just lost one of our best fighters.
- Why the hell didn't you back me up?
- Because she wanted to fight!
Her mother just died.
What's the matter with you?
She was working through it!
When my mom died, all I wanted to do
was get on a mat for three rounds.
It would have helped me then.
It would have helped her now.
We don't teach these kids
to fight with anger.
That's… that's not the Miyagi-Do way.
Oh, please.
I'm so sick of hearing that name.
You act so high and mighty,
like Miyagi was some perfect angel.
But he wasn't.
I heard about
his dirty little box of secrets.
Mr. Miyagi was a liar and a thief.
Shit. Johnny, I…
- I'm sorry.
- Quiet!
I'm gonna coach the tournament with you.
For the kids.
Not for you.
Not for this dojo.
For them.
But once we win,
you and I are done.
For good.
Training for the Sekai Taikai
has been hard on all of us.
But now training is over.
While most of you
won't be going to Barcelona,
we know you'll be there with us in spirit.
Since Tory
won't be going with us,
we've decided Hawk will take her spot.
You six
will be fighting for Miyagi-Do.
It will be the toughest challenge
you've faced yet.
And to win, we're all gonna need
to be there for each other.
All of us.
As a team.
Captains, step forward.
Chris, bring up the official
Sekai Taikai captain headbands.
Dad, what's wrong?
Mr. Miyagi fought in the Sekai Taikai?
Let the games begin.